So, the next thing we're gonna be
talking about here is, social metadata.
So we've got the very
basic level of metadata.
This is the same, this is not modern yet.
These are the same practices you
would have employed to boost
your SEO in 2003, this is really,
really old stuff.
And now we're gonna get
into the newer stuff.
So, these are some of my favorite tools.
We're gonna be using at least
four of the five today.
The one we won't do an exercise with is
Pinterest, because you need to ask for
permission from Pinterest to be allowed
to create rich Pinterest tiles,
and we can't do that in
the context of a workshop.
But we're gonna use all of the other four,
we're gonna use Twitter, Facebook.
I hope you have this SEO META Chrome
extension installed, because it's a great
way of, kind of, without having
to view the source of your HTML,
seeing what are your keywords, what's
your description, what's your title.
It'll give you a little alerts if things
are too short or too long, and so on.
And then
Google Structured Data Testing Tool,
which we will use pretty
extensively later on.
So, we're just gonna go through
some of the most important and
popular social networks one by one, and
talk about the kinds of structured data
we can provide, and what that will do for
the way your links show up.
The first one we're gonna talk about is,
Facebook OpenGraph.
So Facebook OpenGraph,
it's a broad concept,
and it has an even deeper meaning
than we're gonna discuss today,
in the context of building
apps on the Facebook platform.
We can use a limited subset of the same
OpenGraph data, and the same concepts,
when we are trying to give Facebook
hints as to what our URL means.
So here are some of the meta tags we can
put inside of our head in our HTML,
that relate to Facebook.
So you'll see, first off,
that they all begin with og:, right?
Og stands for OpenGraph.
And, we've got property and content,
a little bit different than the name and
content,
which is what we were using before for
the description and the keyword.
So let's go through one by one and
talk about what these mean.
So first we've got this URL.
So this is what's known as the canonical
URL, we mentioned this earlier.
The idea here is that, you might have
a mobile specific URL that our users hit,
and then share that link on Facebook.
You might have an English and Spanish
version of your site, and the locale
is a subdomain on your app, so you've got
different URLs for different languages.
But you want to pile all of your
credibility, and all of that SEO goodness,
and all of that activity in one place.
So you're gonna pick the one true URL for
each piece of content.
Oftentimes this is the desktop
version of this content.
And you want, regardless of language,
or form factor,
or variant of your app, for that
canonical URL to be the same everywhere.
That's what makes sure that,
when you get likes, or
when you get shares,
all of that credit is in one pile.
So you want to strip any query params,
any session variables.
All of that stuff should
be removed from the URL.
And it should be built with
the intent that it will never change.
So here's an example from,
I took a book from Amazon and
figured out what the canonical
URL would be for that.
You'll see that,
they have a human readable URL for
what you'd see in your address bar.
The canonical URL is just like an ID.
And the reasoning here might be that,
they might revise the name of
this book's title, or they might
release a second or third edition.
And they want to make sure that, even
if there is a need to change the human
readable URL,
the canonical URL remains constant.
They're never going to have to change it.
If it's like a unique ID, and
it is immutable, we do not mess with it.
They have an equal sign here in the URL,
that is not a query param related thing,
there is no question mark here, so
that's all part of the path of the URL.
So that's the canonical URL.
We've also got something called a type.
And, by default, this will default to a
website, but this helps inform Facebook as
to what the concept is
that this URL is about.
And we've got lots of
different types here.
I scraped this off of
Facebook's documentation here.
So we've got lots of
different things we can use.
If you don't provide this,
of course, we default to a website.
So in terms of how this might
look a little bit different.
If we go back here and we look at this
New York Times card, I just want you to
look to the right of the title and
the description, there's nothing.
So we're gonna look at different types.
This would be just an article.
And if we look at a song that
I shared from SoundCloud,
you can see we've got a Save button here.
So Facebook has, for media types
like books, and movies, and songs,
they kind of let you have
collections of bookmark-like things,
where someone shares a song and
you wanna come back to it later.
You can save it, and then you can
revisit your list of saved songs,
which will basically just resurface this
list of cards again, but you're sort of
earmarking it as like, this is a song and
I wanna come back to it later.
It may seem like a subtle difference.
Over time, you should assume
that everyone's going to enrich
their social network UIs to make
even better and better, and
better use of this structured data.
So, even if you think, well,
that's not such a big deal.
In the future it might be that,
they expose a player directly in the card,
instead of just a thumbnail here.
And, so the point is, take it seriously,
don't fall back to website if a more
appropriate option is available.
Even if you don't see that
it makes a difference,
in the future it might make a difference.
And then, all of Facebook's cached
information about your URLs,
you'll be able to position where you can
take advantage of that new feature as
soon as it's out.
We've also got another
OpenGraph tag called the title,
that's where that ends up.
If you don't provide a title,
we'll use what's in the title tag,
the one we just filled in for
our basic site.
Keep in mind that,
the length of a title, you can put a lot
of information in your title
to show up in search results.
Here, you may end up seeing that
your default title gets truncated.
That's the reason that you might want
an alternate field to put stuff in.
So you could tack your company's
name onto your title, for
the title tag that we've already
filled in and pushed up to Heroku.
But for this OpenGraph tag,
maybe you just want to.
Your URL's already at the bottom here,
it might be redundant for
you to say, soundcloud.com,
Wake Me Up remix.
So that's why we have two separate places
for this, one might be shorter and
more abbreviated than the other.
Description goes here.
Keep in mind that,
usually this text is not enriched.
So this whole thing is a clickable link,
the whole tile.
You'll see that here, SoundCloud, or
I guess this artist,
has put two URLs in his description.
They're not underlined.
It's just sort of adding
noise to his description.
And what's more, it sort of interferes
with your ability to read it nicely.
So, that's missing an opportunity
to put some really
enticing first sentence that would
get you to click on this link.
Finally, we have an image, and
you may also see it as og:image:url.
So, images are interesting when it comes
to Facebook, for the following reason.
So, once Facebook sees an image at a URL,
it will never retrieve data for
that URL again.
So you need to make sure
you get it the first time.
And if you miss some secondary data
that has to do with that image,
you're gonna need a new image URL, you're
gonna need to create a new picture for
that piece of HTML, so that it will go and
fetch that image again.
So, and
I am providing a best practice here,
not a must, but it's like a soft must.
Facebook doesn't know the width and height
of your image until it downloads the file,
and so you may end up with
a strange looking layout for
the first time a link is shared.
The first time a link is shared,
the image gets downloaded in.
It will calculate the width and height,
and it will know that moving on.
But the best practice is,
to specify it right in your HTML as,
image:type, image:width,
and then image:height,
which unfortunately is cut off for
people in the room.
But it looks just like image:width.
So this ensures that the first time
each image on your site is shared,
it is formatted exactly as you intended,
no part of it is clipped off, and so on.
So Facebook would rather clip
your image off than reflow
the feed because your image
is bigger than it assumed.
Yes?
>> A quick question.
You're talking about Facebook OpenGraph.
And OpenGraph is shared with LinkedIn,
and Reddit, and that stuff too.
Or is that different,
are you getting to that, sorry?
>> So, they started the initiative,
Facebook did.
It is becoming more and
more of a standard, and
they've gotten buy-in from
other social networks.
So this is why I'm starting with Facebook,
because what we'll see is that,
Twitter will honor certain OpenGraph tags.
And, this is a great place
to start with the baseline.
Or if you get some
OpenGraph tags in there,
LinkedIn will start to read some of them.
I don't know the other people who
are buying into the standard, but,
I know Pinterest reads a couple of them.
LinkedIn works slightly differently,
they use a third party
service to enrich their URLs.
And, not all OpenGraph links will work on
them currently, or at least very recently.
I don't know if they've
deployed something recently.
A lot of changes going on there recently,
they've totally redone their UI.
But good question.
And it is becoming more and more of
a standard, which is great because,
when things were more fragmented,
we had to kind of have tons and
tons of redundant information.
Every social network had their own
little description tag, everyone had
their own title, and there is no value
in us defining that over and over again.
In terms of image sizes.
So I've told you how to
specify your image size.
The size of your image
will affect the way your
tiles are rendered in
someone's Facebook feed.
And every social network gets to sort of
decide how to handle this differently.
But, if your image does
not cover a 600 x 315 box,
meaning both dimensions,
meet or exceed that width and
height, you'll get a worse tile here.
So you just should aim to have at
least covering a 600 x 315 pixel box.
It is advised that you double both
of these dimensions, so that when
this is shared on high resolution
mobile devices, like any recent iPhone,
when you think about like Retina Displays,
or the high resolution Android displays.
You want the opportunity to render
that at double the pixel ratio for
that image content.
But you'll still get the wide image
as long as you break 600 x 315.
With that, let's look at
the Exercises OpenGraph folder.
And I'd like everyone to open that up, and
to look at a couple of the files in there.
So I'm gonna go look with you, and
then we'll come back to the instructions.
But, the main idea here is that,
we want to add OpenGraph data
to some pages on this site.